today is a big day in the laptop world
because a bunch of devices were launched
with the new Snapdragon X chip this is
supposedly a very powerful chip with
awesome Energy Efficiency so like
incredible battery life and these are
supposed to be cheaper chips so it' be
able to put this type of chip into a
laptop makes that whole product come
down in price okay I was able to spend a
little bit of time with a few of them
and these are some First Impressions I'm
going to start off with some surface
devices so with the Surface Pro 11 and
the surface laptop 7 with the laptops
having the biggest changes the screens
on both devices are now OLED panels so
the 13.5 in IPS panel for the previous
generation has now been updated to a
13.8 in OLED panel and the 15-in panel
as well but they both have much better
contrast ratios and viewing angles just
better image quality they would get with
OLED Tech and you get thinner bezels but
you also get for the first time that I
can think of on a Surface laptop rounded
corners on the display now Apple's been
doing this on their MacBooks for like
over a decade at this point but they
only do the top corners like the top
left top right this on the surface
laptop here we're seeing it on all four
corners including the bottom ones and
it's just I don't know I like the look I
don't think it's for everyone but I
think it's just like a nice design
language that I think goes really well
with the overall design of the surface
devices uh the keyboard hasn't really
changed other than the inclusion of
their co-pilot key which is like their
AI button you press that and it'll do
wonderful AI things that whole
conversation of co-pilot and the new
co-pilot plus that's a whole separate
convers ation that'll come in the future
the trackpads on the surface laptops
have also been updated they're now a
haptic touchpad in the sense that
they're no longer like a physical can
lever mechanism that goes up and down it
is now a motor on the inside that
simulates the sensation of tapping on
that touch pad and both the 13.8 and
15-in devices have this change another
thing the new Surface laptop seemed a
little chunkier than before so like the
base of the device has a beefier middle
segment which I actually like to see
because usually that means better
thermals and I imagine they went with
this kind of chunkier design because
they wanted to be to support the highest
tier of Snapdragon X chips like the
Snapdragon X Elite that has a slightly
higher wattage and they want to be able
to run that chip on these new Surface
devices but the interesting thing to me
is that for years now the surface
laptops when it came to the Intel
chipped versions those were just barely
able to keep up with the heat output of
those Intel chips but they retooled
everything for the arm chips which to me
is like okay Microsoft at least on the
hardware level is very committed or
seemingly very committed to actually
delivering a good product here because
they actually spent all the money and
resources to retool this entire products
lineup that's good to hear now in terms
of ports you get an extra USBC on the
left side and on the right side is just
the surface connect okay the performance
of this chip so these chips the
Snapdragon X Elite and the Snapdragon X
Plus they're both supposedly awesome but
we've only seen it with synthetic
benchmarks and stuff that the companies
have demo mode with intent the real
question and really think the only kind
of potential problem that we might see
with this product is the support for
nonnative apps so if you're new to this
whole conversation of like arm chips
with Windows devices all the stuff seems
good so far right but the one weakness
is a lot of Windows apps do not have
native support for this type of Chip
These Arm chips and we've been promised
from the developers from Microsoft from
Qualcomm that this time around they
they've got it they've got it all
covered the emulation will be good
everything will be solid but I need to
see the performance with my own eyes on
retail units none of this like Early
Access stuff uh the other product from
Microsoft is their Surface Pro 11 so
this now has an OLED screen which looks
quite a bit better than what they had
previously because it's OLED the size
seem the same and same with the bezels
they didn't change it it's a good thing
I think with a tablet you need to have a
good amount of bezel so you're not like
accidentally misclicking when you're
holding it as a tablet most of this
device seemed completely unchanged from
the exterior it still has the same clean
design on the back and you still have
easy access to the SSD by pushing the
metal plate that has magnets holding it
now at the time of shooting this I don't
have specific pricing on any of those
Microsoft service devices I was told
that they'd be cheaper than I would
expect but because of the live event
I'll be updating any kind of pricing and
extra details down the description but I
do think that they'll be cheaper than
before but I do have two other devices
that I think are arguably more
interesting and I do have details and
pricing the first one is this one this
is lenovo's yoga slim 7x and this thing
starts at $1,200 and for the money you
get a crazy amount of Awesomeness in a
laptop so this is a full metal design
like classic yoga build right but the
keyboard is just it's awesome this is a
1.5 mm travel it's strangely responsive
but because this is so thin like look at
this thing man this is 1.29 millimet
thin sorry 1.29 cmet thin so 12.9
millimet it's super thin super light at
1.29 kilos and it's
like it it's crazy how compact this
thing is with a 14-in screen so this is
a 14.5 in OLED panel that gets super
bright I think it Peaks at 1,00 nits
this is all like pre-release or pre-
retail soft or Hardware so I can't
really I don't want to measure it and
give you numbers but the the goal of it
is be able to hit 1,000 nits at Peak but
this thing is so good for the money
because typically if you're going to get
a device like this with an Intel or AMD
chip this thing would have been like
1,500 bucks easy but to get this kind of
performance and a 70w hour battery so
the 70w hour battery combined with the
Snapdragon X chip my guess they wouldn't
give me numbers yet but my guess is it's
going to be like a 20h hour claimed
battery this is supposed to be a
multi-day battery product uh I legit
think they're going to be like this
thing's 21 hours like out of the box
that would be crazy but again all the
testing has to come later but for the
money I think this is really solid the
other product I want to dry your
attention to is the Viva book S15 from
Asus this is an even cheaper device
starts at $1,100 but this has a bigger
screen at 15 in it's also a really nice
looking panel 120 HZ 3K but this isn't
as premium of a product overall as the
Lenovo Yoga slim 7x I do think that
because of the bigger screen you'll also
have a slightly shorter battery life
they both have 70w hour batteries but
the interesting thing about this Asus
product the Viva book S15 is it does
have the highest wattage of the
Snapdragon X laptops I've seen so far so
45 Watts at the top end you also get a
lot of IO including two usba and an HDMI
port and a Micro SD reader to boot so my
initial impression on this whole like
launch of Snapdragon X devices it's just
so much better than I than I thought it
would be like when they first announced
it we saw all the launch partners and it
seemed like okay there's a lot of
companies on board but I'm impressed by
the caliber or devices that are coming
out the fact that Microsoft like
retooled their surface laptop Hardware
finally but for arm devices like that's
telling uh and then you just saw like
two other really good devices like I
think the the options are really good
for consumers at this point don't go out
and buy it until you see the retail like
reviews I think my hope is that the
emulation is going to be good enough it
it better be or else all of this is just
going to go to waste but wait for the
reviews uh I'll be doing pretty
extensive reviews on the performance and
the stuff so be tuned for that if you're
interested uh but there you have it the
Snapdragon X laptops are finally here